So far, in this module,
we've discussed what
a neural network is and
how to arrive at the best
weights given training data.
However, we still
need to explore more
deeply how to train
neural networks efficiently.
This lesson will
discuss how to split
your data for an unbiased
estimate of performance on
your neural network model
and what insights
you can get from
observing your neural
network's performance
on various data splits.
Let's begin by describing
the usual data splits
we use to evaluate
a machine learning system.
Let's take as an example
a real life problem.
We're given a dataset
of 10,000 images of
traffic signs with corresponding
classification labels.
We want to train
our neural network to
perform traffic sign
classification.
How do we approach this problem?
Do we train on all
the data and then
deploy our traffic
sign classifier?
That approach is guaranteed
to fail for the following reason.
Given a large enough
neural network,
we are almost guaranteed to
get a very low training loss.
This is due to the very large
number of parameters in
a typical deep neural
network allowing it to
memorize the training data to
a large extent given
a large enough number
of training iterations.
A better approach is to split
this data into three parts,
the training split,
the validation split,
and the testing split.
As the name suggests,
the training split is directly
observed by the model during
neural network training.
The loss function is directly
minimized on this training set.
But as we've stated earlier,
we are expecting the value
of this function
to be very low over the set.
The validation split is
used by developers to test
the performance of
the neural network
when hyperparameters are changed.
Hyperparameters are those
parameters that either modify
our network structure or
affect our training process,
but are not a part of
the network parameters
learned during training.
Examples include;
the learning rate,
the number of layers,
the number of units per layer,
and the activation function type.
The final split is
called the testing split
and is used to get an unbiased
estimate of performance.
The test splits should
be off limits when
developing a neural network
architecture so that
the neural network never
sees this data during
the training or hyperparameter
optimization process.
The only use of
the test set should
be to evaluate the performance of
the final architecture
and hyperparameter
set before it is deployed
on a self-driving vehicle.
Let us now determine
what percentage of data
goes into each split.
Before the big data error,
it was common to have datasets on
the order of thousands
of examples.
In that case, the default
percentage of data that goes into
each split was approximately
60 percent for training,
20 percent for validation,
and 20 percent held in
reserve for testing.
However, nowadays, it is not
uncommon to have
datasets on the order of
millions of examples having
20 percent of the data in
the validation and test sets is
unnecessary as the
validation and test would
contain far more samples than
are needed for the purpose.
In such cases, we
would find that a
training set of 98 percent of
the data with
a validation and test set
of one percent of the data
each is not uncommon.
Let us go back to our traffic
sign detection problem.
We assume that
our traffic sign dataset is
comprised of 10,000
labeled examples.
We can separate our dataset into
a training validation and testing
split according to the 602020
small dataset heuristic.
We now evaluate
the performance of
our neural network on each of
these splits using
the loss function.
For a classification problem,
the loss function is defined
as the cross entropy
between the prediction and
the ground truth labels.
Cross entropy is strictly
greater than zero,
so the higher its value,
the worse the performance
of our classifier.
Keep in mind that
the neural network
only directly observes
the training set.
All the developers use
the validation set to
determine the best
hyperparameters to use.
The ultimate goal of
the training is still
minimizing the error on
the test set since it is
an unbiased estimate
of performance of
our system and the data has
never been observed
by the network.
Let us first consider
the following scenario.
Let us assume that
our estimator gave
a cross entropy loss of
0.21 on the training set,
and a loss of 0.25 on
the validation set,
and finally, a loss of
0.3 on the test set.
Furthermore, due to errors in
the labels of the dataset,
the minimum cross
entropy loss that
we can expect is 0.18.
In this case, we have
quite a good classifier
as the loss on
the three sets are fairly
consistent and
the loss is close to
the minimum achievable loss
on the entire task.
Let's consider a second scenario
where the training loss is now
1.9 around ten times that
of the minimum loss.
As we discussed in
the previous lesson,
we expect any reasonably
sized neural network
to be able to
almost perfectly fit the data
given enough training time.
But in this case, the network
was not able to do so.
We call this scenario where
the neural network fails
to bring the training loss
down underfitting.
One other scenario we
might face is when we have
a low training set loss but
a high validation and
testing set loss.
For example, we might
arrive at the case where
the validation loss is around
ten times that of
the training loss.
This case is referred to as
overfitting and is caused by
the neural network
optimizing its parameters to
precisely reproduce
the training data output.
When we deploy on
the validation set,
the network cannot generalize
well to the new data.
The gap between training and
validation loss is called
the generalization gap.
We want this gap to
be as low as possible
while still having
low enough training loss.
Let's see how we can try to
go from the underfitting
or overfitting regime
to a good estimator.
We begin with how to
remedy underfitting.
The first option to remedy
underfitting is to train longer.
If the architecture is
suitable for the task at hand,
training longer usually leads
to a lower training loss.
If the architecture is too small,
training longer might not help.
In that case, you would
want to add more layers
to your neural network or add
more parameters per layer.
If both of the above
options don't help,
your architecture might not be
suitable for the task
at hand and you
would want to try
a different architecture
to reduce underfitting.
Now, let's proceed to
the most common approaches
to reduce overfitting.
In the case of overfitting,
the easiest thing to do is
to just collect more data.
Unfortunately, for
self-driving cars,
collecting training data is very
expensive as it requires
engineering time for
data collection and
a tremendous amount of
annotator time to properly
define the true outputs.
Another solution for
overfitting is regularization.
Regularization is
any modification
made to the learning
algorithm with
an intention to lower
the generalization gap but
not the training loss.
If all else fails,
the final solution is to revisit
the architecture and check if
it is suitable for
the task at hand.
In this lesson, we have
learned how to interpret
the different
performance scenarios
of our neural network
on the training,
validation, and test splits.
If it is determined that
our network is underfitting,
the easiest solution
is to train for
a longer time or to use
a larger neural network.
However, a much more
commonly faced scenario
in self-driving car
perception is overfitting
where good performance on
the training data does not always
translate to good performance
on actual robots.
In the next lesson, we'll
focus on how to
mitigate the effects of
overfitting with various
regularization strategies.
These strategies will allow
perception algorithms
trained to excel
unlabeled datasets to
continue to work well
when driving through the
ever-changing world around us.